

BANT

A methodology for qualifying leads in which sales reps confirm that a prospect has the budget, authority, need, and timeline to buy. If any of those factors aren’t in place, it’s unlikely that you’ll make the sale.

Bluebird

Guaranteed to put you in a cheerful mood, a bluebird is a lucrative sales opportunity that drops into your lap unexpectedly, and without much effort.


Decision maker

The decision maker is the person who ultimately approves a sale or purchase. This is not necessarily the person who appears to be calling the shots; it’s possible that person is actually the gatekeeper.


Emotional sale

A selling method that attempts to appeal to a buyer’s emotions, either by generating desire and excitement around the product’s benefits, or evoking negative emotions like fear and frustration—pain points that your product or service can alleviate. (See also: intellectual sale)

FAB

A sales acronym for “features, advantages, and benefits.” Sales reps use this three-part structure to communicate the value of their product or service, by defining its characteristics (features), the positive attributes of those features (advantages), and how the product would enhance the customer’s life or reduce pain points (benefits).


Land and expand

“Landing” a sale refers to the initial close, when you bring on a new customer for the first time. “Expanding” means generating even more revenue from the account by upselling or broadening the scope of the service you’re providing. Sales reps need to land and expand in order to generate the most revenue from a given prospect.


Puppy dog close

Allowing customers to try out a product with no obligation while they make their decision. The idea is, an uncommitted buyer will fall in love with the product and won’t want to let it go—just like person interested in buying a puppy wouldn’t be able to say “no” after taking one home for a few days.


Sandbagging

Holding off on closing active deals once you’ve already hit your quota/commission for the month, so that you can more easily hit your numbers the following month.


Smile and dial

Cold-calling with a cheerful, positive tone of voice—and yes, a smile. Smiling communicates warmth and trustworthiness over the phone, which makes the prospect less likely to hang up on you. Even if people can’t see your smile, they can hear it.



Time kills all deals

Simply put, a sale is less likely to happen as more time passes—so the quicker you can knock down objections and move prospects through your funnel, the better. Remember: If a prospect says “let me think about it,” it’s because they haven’t been completely sold yet, and you need to increase your efforts before they slip away for good.

Top of the funnel (TOFU)

The start of the buying process. Often attracted by awareness-stage website content, top of the funnel leads have shown a general interest in your product, or are looking for more information on the solutions you provide. TOFU leads need to be qualified and nurtured so they can start moving down the funnel.

